1.You can analyze all the tables by describing and printing their contents.

  DESC orders;
  DESC customers;
  DESC returns;

2.You are required to find out which category is performing better in terms of profit than the others so that business can find ways to improve.

  Select Category,SUM(Profit)
  from orders
  group by Category
  having Max(Profit)
  Order by Max(Profit) desc;

3.While going through the data set you found out that the State column in the Orders table also contains Union territories and found a mistake.
You found that for Chandigarh the city is marked as Delhi. You pointed out this mistake to database manager and he asks you to update the table.

  update orders
  set City ='Chandigarh' where State='Chandigarh';
  select * from orders;

4.As a next step, you want to know how much company profit has been generated by the company so far. Write a query to find the total profit sum from orders table.

  select SUM(Profit)
  from orders;
  
5.You saw that the company has made good profits so far. You are required to report which order had the highest profit so far.

  SELECT Order_ID,Product_Name,Profit
  from orders
  order by Profit;
  
6.Going through the data, you also want to report orders where there was loss.
Write a query to get all the orders where there was a loss and report the order ID, product name and loss. Sort the result in a format that the highest loss is on the top.

  select Order_ID,Product_Name, Profit
  from orders
  where Profit<0
  order by Profit ;
  
7.Now you know all the orders where there was a loss. You are curious to know why the company made a loss on those items. You see that discounts are also given on some items.
Write a query to get the list of all orders which have loss and sort them in descending order of discount given.
Print OrderID, ProductName, Profit and Discount.

  SELECT Order_ID,Product_Name,Profit,Discount
  from orders
  where Profit<0
  order by Discount desc;
  
8.You now want to know if there are particular states which are making losses. Write a query to get the State and sum of profit for each state.
The result should be in increasing order of profit.

  select State,SUM(Profit)
  from orders
  group by State
  order by Sum(Profit);

9.Now you want to go further and list categories in each state and see their profit. This will help analyze how various categories are performing in each state.

  SELECT State,
  Category,
      SUM(Profit)
  FROM orders
  GROUP BY State,Category ;
  
10.You realised that there are three segments of products: Consumer, Corporate and Home office. You ask your manager to provide you a list of the people 
who are managing these segments. Unfortunately these are not present in the database. Since you want to digitise the system, you plan to put the data in the database. 
He provides you the data on a sheet of paper as follows:
Segment - Varchar(100)
Segment_Manager- Varchar(100)
Write a query to create a table in the database with Name as Manager and with values provided. Do assign proper Primary key.

  create table Manager
  (Segment varchar(100) primary key ,
   Segment_Manager varchar(100) );

  insert into Manager values
  ('Consumer','Gaganjit Singh'
  );
  insert into Manager values
  ('Corporate','Aman Jain'
  );
  insert into Manager values
  ('Home Office','Kush Arora'
  );
   select * from Manager
   order by Segment;
   
11.Now you have a table in the database named Manager. You are required to get the total profit and total orders for each segment.
 
   select Segment, COUNT(Order_ID),SUM(Profit)
   from orders
   group by Segment;
   
12.Since you want to help the segment managers get fair evaluation and your manager has asked you to get the covid effect on the sales.
Write the query to get sum of sales, sum of profit for the year 2020.

  SELECT SUM(Sales), SUM(Profit)
  FROM orders
  WHERE Order_Date LIKE '%20';

13.Now your manager wants you to remove 2020 from the total sales and profit and present the result. 
Write a query to get the sum of sales of each segment and their respective segment manager for all years except 2020.

  select SUM(orders.Sales),Manager.Segment_Manager
  from orders
  left join
  Manager on
  orders.Segment=Manager.Segment
  where orders.Order_Date not like '%20'
  group by orders.Segment; 
  
14.Write a query to get Customer ID and sum of profit for each. The result should be such that you are easily able to find the highest profit customer.

  SELECT Customer_ID,SUM(Profit)
  from orders
  group by Customer_ID
  ORDER BY SUM(Profit) desc;
  
15.Write a query to find the customer details having the highest Profit. The result should be such that you are easily able to find the highest profitable customer.
The query should have columns : Customer_ID, Customer_Name_, sum of Sales, sum of Profit, count of Order_ID.

  SELECT orders.Customer_ID, customers.Customer_Name_, SUM(orders.Sales), SUM(orders.Profit),COUNT(orders.Order_ID)
  FROM orders
  join customers on
  orders.Customer_ID=customers.Customer_ID
  GROUP BY orders.Customer_ID, customers.Customer_Name_
  order by SUM(Profit) desc;


